KEP-5328: Node Capability Aware Scheduling (#5347)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-node/5328-node-declared-features/README.md

  - [ ] (R) Ensure GA e2e tests meet requirements for [Conformance Tests](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md)
  - [ ] (R) Minimum Two Week Window for GA e2e tests to prove flake free
- [ ] (R) Graduation criteria is in place
  - [ ] (R) [all GA Endpoints](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/1806) must be hit by [Conformance Tests](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md)
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review completed
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review approved
- [ ] "Implementation History" section is up-to-date for milestone
- [ ] User-facing documentation has been created in [kubernetes/website], for publication to [kubernetes.io]
- [ ] Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

> This KEP proposes a **Node Declared Features** framework which allows nodes to declare a set of features that are tied to the lifecycle of a Kubernetes feature. This would then be used by the control plane to make scheduling and admission decisions, primarily to manage version skew. For scheduling, the kube-scheduler would utilize these declared features to ensure pods are only placed on nodes that possess the necessary features to run them successfully. For API request validation, admission controllers would prevent operations on nodes that lack the required feature support. The intent is to streamline cluster operations by reducing the reliance on manual configurations like taints, tolerations, and complex node labeling schemes.

Author: Modified.

### Goals

1. Define a standard mechanism for nodes to declare features that are tied to the lifecycle of new Kubernetes features to manage version skew.
2. Introduce a shared library to encapsulate the logic for inferring a pod's feature requirements and matching them against a node's declared features, ensuring consistency between control plane components that depend on this mechanism.
3. Enhance the kube-scheduler to filter nodes based on the pod's requirements.
4. Enable API admission controllers to validate requests for operations against a node's actual feature support.
5. Enable Kubelet admission plugin to check if the Pod is compatible with the Node's features.
6. Enable Cluster Autoscaler to consider declared features while scaling up existing node groups with active nodes.

### Non-Goals

1. Replace Taints/Tolerations or Node Labels/Selectors/Affinity.
2. Serve as a reporting mechanism for permanent static node attributes (like architecture, or specific hardware).
3. The feature declaration and matching mechanism is designed to support only new features introduced after this framework is in place. It is not applicable to Kubernetes features that are already implemented.

> 4. To include Cluster Autoscaler integration for scale-from-zero scenarios.

Reviewer: Depending on how we define the interface for declaring node features we can lift/shift it into the Cluster Autoscaler ecosystem sort of like how Cluster API implements scale-from-zero here:

- https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/blob/main/docs/proposals/20210310-opt-in-autoscaling-from-zero.md#machineset-and-machinedeployment-annotations

> 4. To include Cluster Autoscaler integration for scale-from-zero scenarios.

Reviewer 2: Ok...but we're going to need scale from zero at some point. I think we need a plan for that, I don't know if it needs to be blocking but I don't think "support for scale from zero" can be a *non-goal*. Maybe it's a *deferred goal*?

We have similar issues with DRA, where scale-from-zero needs to characterize nodes with the ResourceSlices they will produce.

> 4. To include Cluster Autoscaler integration for scale-from-zero scenarios.

Author: Updated the goal.  Yes, the problem is similar to DRA solved as a part of larger autoscaling strategy (like https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/issues/7799)

**Node Declared Features Requirements:**

1. Every feature added in `node.status.declaredFeatures` is temporary and must be associated with a Kubernetes feature graduating through the Alpha/Beta/GA process. This ensures declared features are not used as permanent node attributes and are removed as part of the standard post-GA feature cleanup process.
2. The NodeDeclaredFeatures framework must be used for new features introduced after the framework. Onboarding existing features must be avoided as it would create ambiguity; the control plane would be unable to differentiate between a node that has the feature but is not declaring it, and a node that genuinely lacks the feature.
3. Must be derived from node's static configuration and determined at startup. Kubelet must determine all declared features during its bootstrap sequence, before its admission handlers are active. Reporting new or changed features requires a Kubelet restart to take effect.

> 4. Must be actionable by the control plane. A declared feature is only relevant if it can be used by a control plane component (like kube-scheduler or an admission controller) to make a decision, such as filtering a node or validating an API request.

Author: The consuming component (like kube-scheduler) need not be changed for each declared feature. The shared library would provide that abstraction. The library would provide a pluggable registry system and adding a new feature requires adding a new, self-contained feature implementation (discovery and inference logic) to the registry.

    *   For a new feature enhancement like [In-Place Pod Resize for Guaranteed QoS pods](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/5294), an API request to modify a running pod must be validated. The operation should be rejected if the pod resides on an older node that does not support the feature.

The Node Declared Features framework addresses both issues through a unified mechanism without requiring any intervention (like adding Node Labels, selectors etc.). The scheduler uses the declared feature information to correctly filter nodes for new pods, while the admission controller validates operations against the declared features of a pod's current node. This ensures that feature incompatibilities are handled proactively at the control plane.

## Design Details

### API Changes

Add a `DeclaredFeatures` field as type `[]string` to the `Node.Status` structure.

```
type NodeStatus struct {
    // ... existing fields
    // DeclaredFeatures provides a list of features declared by the node.
    // The list is sorted alphabetically and contains no duplicate entries.
    // +optional

>     // +featureGate=NodeDeclaredFeatures

Reviewer 3: let's explicitly annotate with `// +listType=set` to indicate we require unique values and a single writer for the whole list

Author: Thanks. Added.

In addition to reporting, Kubelet will also need to validate the pod. Before admitting a pod to be run on the node, the Kubelet's pod admission handlers check the pod's feature requirements (as inferred from its spec). It will validate these requirements against its own in-memory list of declared features. If a feature required by the pod is not present, the Kubelet will reject the pod, transition it to a `Failed` state, and post an appropriate event to the API server detailing the missing feature requirement. This secondary validation (along with kube-scheduler filtering) is necessary to handle node restart scenarios where a feature that was enabled during pod scheduling is no longer enabled (feature gate flip with node restart).

As a part of the feature's graduation to GA and eventual removal of the feature gate, the Kubelet must stop declaring the corresponding feature in `node.status.declaredFeatures`. This ensures that obsolete information is removed from the `node.status` object as part of the standard feature cleanup process.

> ### Shared Feature Matching Library

Author: Thats correct. The consuming component will call Infer() which returns a list of requirements, which is then passed to Match() with the node object.  This is keeping the `PreFilter` and `Filter` stages of the scheduler in mind. 

> What about ancillary Pod resources, like ResourceClaims or PVCs? Should this get the "closure" of the PodSpec?

That's a good point. Currently we call Infer() with just the pod object (`*v1.Pod`). We could use a new, extensible data structure that wraps the pod object for now but allows us to easily add ancillary resources like ResourceClaims to that structure in the future, when a feature inference actually needs this information. I believe this would also require changes in other plugins to avoid duplicate work (like passing the fetched ResourceClaim between`DynamicResources` and `NodeDeclaredFeatures` plugins).

> ### Shared Feature Matching Library

Author: Updated.

in back-to-back releases.

**For non-optional features moving to GA, the graduation criteria must include
[conformance tests].**

[conformance tests]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md

#### Deprecation

- Announce deprecation and support policy of the existing flag
- Two versions passed since introducing the functionality that deprecates the flag (to address version skew)
- Address feedback on usage/changed behavior, provided on GitHub issues
- Deprecate the flag
-->

**Alpha:**
*   The `NodeDeclaredFeatures` feature gate is implemented and disabled by default.
*   The Kubelet correctly discovers and declares features to the `node.status.declaredFeatures` list when the feature gate is enabled.
*   A shared library is implemented with the initial logic for feature inference and matching.
*   The API server correctly serves and validates the `declaredFeatures` field when the feature gate is enabled.
*   The `kube-scheduler` and `admission-controller` plugins are introduced and integrated with the shared library.
*   All unit and integration tests outlined in the Test Plan are implemented and verified.

**Beta:**

> *   Cluser Autoscaler support for existing nodepools with active nodes. 

Reviewer 4: Any reasons this is not included in alpha?

Author: Ack. Will keep this as a stretch-goal and will update the KEP if we can get it done in 1.35.

is to enable automation to verify the presence of the review, and to reduce review
burden and latency.

The KEP must have a approver from the
[`prod-readiness-approvers`](http://git.k8s.io/enhancements/OWNERS_ALIASES)
team. Please reach out on the
[#prod-readiness](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CPNHUMN74) channel if
you need any help or guidance.
-->

### Feature Enablement and Rollback

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting alpha to a release.
-->

###### How can this feature be enabled / disabled in a live cluster?

<!--
Pick one of these and delete the rest.

Documentation is available on [feature gate lifecycle] and expectations, as
well as the [existing list] of feature gates.

[feature gate lifecycle]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/feature-gates.md
[existing list]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/
-->

- [x] Feature gate (also fill in values in `kep.yaml`)
  - Feature gate name: NodeDeclaredFeatures
  - Components depending on the feature gate: kubelet, kube-scheduler, kube-apiserver

###### Does enabling the feature change any default behavior?

> No. Enabling the `NodeDeclaredFeatures` feature gate does not change any default behavior for existing features or workloads. The NodeDeclaredFeatures framework would have no effect until a new Kubernetes feature is introduced that explicitly utilizes it.

Author: Thanks. Updated. 

https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/5554 could be a good candidate. I have used this as an example in the "Walkthrough" section. cc @esotsal

logs or events for this purpose.
-->

###### How can someone using this feature know that it is working for their instance?

<!--
For instance, if this is a pod-related feature, it should be possible to determine if the feature is functioning properly
for each individual pod.
Pick one more of these and delete the rest.
Please describe all items visible to end users below with sufficient detail so that they can verify correct enablement
and operation of this feature.
Recall that end users cannot usually observe component logs or access metrics.
-->

This feature is designed to be mostly invisible to end users during normal operation. The user may become aware of this if there is an incompatible pod scheduling is prevented and the pod remains pending.

- [x] Events
    - Event Reason: FailedScheduling
    - Details: When a user creates a pod that requires a feature not available on any node in the cluster, the pod will remain `Pending`. By running kubectl describe pod <pod-name>, the user will see an event with a message clearly stating the reason, for 
      example: 0/5 nodes are available: 5 node(s) did not match node declared features: guaranteed-qos-pod-cpu-resize.

> - [x] API .status

Author: The event message includes the features required by the pod and missing in the Node. Do you mean all of the required features ?

> - [x] API .status

Reviewer 2: no, that's fine I think

something else. The KEP should keep this high-level with a focus on what
signals will be looked at to determine graduation.

Consider the following in developing the graduation criteria for this enhancement:
- [Maturity levels (`alpha`, `beta`, `stable`)][maturity-levels]
- [Feature gate][feature gate] lifecycle
- [Deprecation policy][deprecation-policy]

Clearly define what graduation means by either linking to the [API doc
definition](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/#api-versioning)
or by redefining what graduation means.

In general we try to use the same stages (alpha, beta, GA), regardless of how the
functionality is accessed.

[feature gate]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/feature-gates.md
[maturity-levels]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api_changes.md#alpha-beta-and-stable-versions
[deprecation-policy]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/

Below are some examples to consider, in addition to the aforementioned [maturity levels][maturity-levels].

#### Alpha

- Feature implemented behind a feature flag
- Initial e2e tests completed and enabled

> 

Author: SG. Added this as criteria. We can use IPPR with static CPU policy (https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/5554) as a declared feature. 

cc @tallclair @natasha41575 @esotsal.

> 

Reviewer 5: IPPR with static CPU policy will exercise the admission controller flow, but we should also have a feature that uses the scheduling flow. https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/5474 might be a good candidate, but ideally every alpha feature with an associated pod field should be registered with this.

> 

Reviewer 3: > I think unless at least one feature uses this, there is no point in doing alpha. We need that as a criterion.

that could be fine, just ensure alpha features which rely on this mechanism to schedule express a dependency on this feature being enabled

    *   The library itself is responsible for handling all complex logic. The scheduler plugin simply acts on the boolean result returned by the library to either filter the node or pass it.
    *   The library also returns a list of the specific feature requirements that were not satisfied which can be used to generate a `Unschedulable` status with a clear, informative message. The scheduler framework then records this message in the Pod's status and events, making the reason for the scheduling failure directly visible to the user.
3. Enqueue Extension:
    *   To make the scheduler responsive to cluster changes, the plugin implements queueing hints to optimize re-queueing.
    *   **Node Events:** The scheduler plugin registers for Node `Add` and `Update` events. In the case of updates, a new narrowly-scoped `UpdateNodeDeclaredFeature` action type will be introduced to trigger the hint function when `node.status.declaredFeatures` is modified. A queue hint is generated if a new node is added or an existing node's declared features are updated in a way it satisfies the pod's feature requirements.

>     *   **Pod Events:** The scheduler plugin registers for Pod `Update` event. A new narrowly-scoped `UpdatePodFeatureRequirement` action type will be introduced and a queue hint is generated if a pending pod is updated in a way that its feature requirements have changed.

Author: Yes, the queue hint function would have to compare the requirement from  `InferForPodCreate(oldPod)` and `InferForPodCreate(newPod)` nd queue the pod if they have changed.

GA/stable, because there's no opportunity for user feedback, or even bug reports,
in back-to-back releases.

**For non-optional features moving to GA, the graduation criteria must include
[conformance tests].**

[conformance tests]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md

#### Deprecation

- Announce deprecation and support policy of the existing flag
- Two versions passed since introducing the functionality that deprecates the flag (to address version skew)
- Address feedback on usage/changed behavior, provided on GitHub issues
- Deprecate the flag
-->

**Alpha:**
*   The `NodeDeclaredFeatures` feature gate is implemented and disabled by default.
*   The Kubelet correctly discovers and declares features to the `node.status.declaredFeatures` list when the feature gate is enabled.
*   A shared library is implemented with the initial logic for feature inference and matching.
*   The API server correctly serves and validates the `declaredFeatures` field when the feature gate is enabled.
*   The `kube-scheduler` and `admission-controller` plugins are introduced and integrated with the shared library.

> *   Atleast one feature is integrated with and uses the Node Declared Features framework. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
*   At least one feature is integrated with and uses the Node Declared Features framework. 
```

logs or events for this purpose.
-->

###### How can someone using this feature know that it is working for their instance?

<!--
For instance, if this is a pod-related feature, it should be possible to determine if the feature is functioning properly
for each individual pod.
Pick one more of these and delete the rest.
Please describe all items visible to end users below with sufficient detail so that they can verify correct enablement
and operation of this feature.
Recall that end users cannot usually observe component logs or access metrics.
-->

This feature is designed to be mostly invisible to end users during normal operation. The user may become aware of this if there is an incompatible pod scheduling is prevented and the pod remains pending.

- [x] Events
    - Event Reason: FailedScheduling
    - Details: When a user creates a pod that requires a feature not available on any node in the cluster, the pod will remain `Pending`. By running kubectl describe pod <pod-name>, the user will see an event with a message clearly stating the reason, for 
      example: 0/5 nodes are available: 5 node(s) did not match node declared features: GuaranteedQoSPodCPUResize.

> - [x] API .status

Reviewer 6: You can also mention pod status `Unschedulable` set by kube-scheduler with the message similar to the events

Author: Updated.

#### Declared Feature Semantics

1.  Combine Interdependent Settings
    *   If multiple settings are required to enable a feature, they must be collapsed into a single, logical declared feature.
    *   This simplifies decision-making for control plane components like the scheduler, which should not need to understand multiple interdependent settings.

2.  Presence of a Declared Feature
    *   A feature should only be present in `node.status.declaredFeatures` if it is enabled and functional.
    *   If a feature is disabled or unsupported, its corresponding identifier must not exist in `node.status.declaredFeatures`.
    *   This approach ensures consistency and simplifies logic for the control plane, treating nodes that don't know about a feature the same as those that have it disabled.

3.  Validation Rules

>     *   Strings within the `node.status.declaredFeatures` slice must follow the standard identifier format used for most Kubernetes resource names (kebab-case with 63 character limit).

Reviewer 5: I think we should use CamelCase, and generally match the name to the associated feature gate name. In cases where we need multiple declared features for a single feature gate (I'm not sure if there's a usecase for this yet), then I'd suggest a syntax like `FeatureName/SubFeature`

Reviewer 3: We have some *long* feature gate names (`KubeletServiceAccountTokenForCredentialProviders`) and if we have the possibility of subfeatures `$GATE/...`, 63 might be a little tight. I guess *new* gates wanting to use this mechanism would be encouraged to be succinct, which is ~good.

If we want to give ourselves more wiggle-room, something like `const DNS1123SubdomainMaxLength int = 253` would also be ~ok as a limit.

We should also put an upper bound on the number of items in the list for sanity, something like 128 or 256 or something (how many in-progress feature rollouts do we think we'd ever have?)

Author: Modified to include camelCase and  DNS1123SubdomainMaxLength limit.  The validation would happen when a feature is being registered in the shared library. 

There was some discussion around upper bound [here]
(https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/5347#discussion_r2145092605). I am not opposed to having an upper bound, but I am wondering what the behavior should be if we reach that bound. Since the library includes `minVersion` and `maxVersion` during feature registration, would it be a better approach be to have a reasonable default maxVersion (minVersion + X) ?. Say, If a feature does not graduate to GA X version's after it was introduced, we stop declaring it.

>     *   The list would be sorted alphabetically and would not contain duplicate entries.

Reviewer 5: nit
```suggestion
    *   The list must be sorted alphabetically and must not contain duplicate entries.
```

    *   Kubelet validates each identifier and will discard any invalid or duplicate entries logging an error. The validation would also be enforced by [unit tests](#unit-tests).

**Example:**

```
declaredFeatures:
   - guaranteed-qos-pod-cpu-resize
```

### Kubelet Changes

> Kubelet has the primary responsibility of discovering the enabled features relevant for control plane during its bootstrap and updating `node.status.declaredFeatures`. It determines its full, static set of declared features **once** upon startup based on its configuration. This list is held in memory and is included as a part of the periodic `NodeStatus` update that the Kubelet sends to the API server. The Kubelet is the authoritative source of truth for its own declared features. If an external controller or user were to modify the `node.status.declaredFeatures` field on the Node object, the Kubelet's next periodic status update would automatically overwrite and revert those changes.

Reviewer 5: nit:

> This list is held in memory and is included as a part of the periodic `NodeStatus` update that the Kubelet sends to the API server.

I think the Kubelet sends a json patch, so it won't actually be sent to the API server unless another component tried to modify it (in which case kubelet should overwrite it).

- [Maturity levels (`alpha`, `beta`, `stable`)][maturity-levels]
- [Feature gate][feature gate] lifecycle
- [Deprecation policy][deprecation-policy]

Clearly define what graduation means by either linking to the [API doc
definition](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/#api-versioning)
or by redefining what graduation means.

In general we try to use the same stages (alpha, beta, GA), regardless of how the
functionality is accessed.

[feature gate]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/feature-gates.md
[maturity-levels]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api_changes.md#alpha-beta-and-stable-versions
[deprecation-policy]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/

Below are some examples to consider, in addition to the aforementioned [maturity levels][maturity-levels].

#### Alpha

- Feature implemented behind a feature flag
- Initial e2e tests completed and enabled

#### Beta

- Gather feedback from developers and surveys
- Complete features A, B, C
- Additional tests are in Testgrid and linked in KEP

> - More rigorous forms of testing—e.g., downgrade tests and scalability tests

Reviewer 5: I'm not sure what the status of our downgrade testing infrastructure is. If we don't have test jobs set up for this, I don't think it should block beta.

Reviewer 7: Downgrades are not tested in any CI job whatsoever.

We have some very limited forms of upgrade testing (including with compat-version on the control plane components), skew testing.

We should probably at least look at including this in those jobs.

- All functionality completed
- All security enforcement completed
- All monitoring requirements completed
- All testing requirements completed
- All known pre-release issues and gaps resolved

**Note:** Beta criteria must include all functional, security, monitoring, and testing requirements along with resolving all issues and gaps identified

#### GA

> - N examples of real-world usage

Reviewer 5: There is a bit of a chicken&egg problem with this feature. Other features that rely on it can't graduate to GA before this does. So, we may need to just push for GA with limited examples.

mid-rollout?

Be sure to consider highly-available clusters, where, for example,
feature flags will be enabled on some API servers and not others during the
rollout. Similarly, consider large clusters and how enablement/disablement
will rollout across nodes.
-->

###### What specific metrics should inform a rollback?

<!--
What signals should users be paying attention to when the feature is young
that might indicate a serious problem?
-->

###### Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was the upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?

<!--
Describe manual testing that was done and the outcomes.
Longer term, we may want to require automated upgrade/rollback tests, but we
are missing a bunch of machinery and tooling and can't do that now.
-->

###### Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?

<!--
Even if applying deprecation policies, they may still surprise some users.
-->

### Monitoring Requirements

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting beta to a release.

For GA, this section is required: approvers should be able to confirm the
previous answers based on experience in the field.
-->

> ###### How can an operator determine if the feature is in use by workloads?

Reviewer 5: N/A (They can't - it's not directly used by workloads.)

<!--
Ideally, this should be a metric. Operations against the Kubernetes API (e.g.,
checking if there are objects with field X set) may be a last resort. Avoid
logs or events for this purpose.
-->

> ###### How can someone using this feature know that it is working for their instance?

Reviewer 5: N/A?

This feature should be mostly invisible to users. The main reason a user would become aware of it is if they are using version skewed cluster (apiserver newer than nodes), and trying to use a feature that the nodes don't support, in which case they'll see an unschedulable condition on the pod.

<!--
For instance, if this is a pod-related feature, it should be possible to determine if the feature is functioning properly
for each individual pod.
Pick one more of these and delete the rest.
Please describe all items visible to end users below with sufficient detail so that they can verify correct enablement
and operation of this feature.
Recall that end users cannot usually observe component logs or access metrics.
-->

- [ ] Events
  - Event Reason:
- [ ] API .status
  - Condition name:
  - Other field:
- [ ] Other (treat as last resort)
  - Details:

> ###### What are the reasonable SLOs (Service Level Objectives) for the enhancement?

Reviewer 5: N/A?

<!--
This is your opportunity to define what "normal" quality of service looks like
for a feature.

It's impossible to provide comprehensive guidance, but at the very
high level (needs more precise definitions) those may be things like:
  - per-day percentage of API calls finishing with 5XX errors <= 1%
  - 99% percentile over day of absolute value from (job creation time minus expected
    job creation time) for cron job <= 10%
  - 99.9% of /health requests per day finish with 200 code

These goals will help you determine what you need to measure (SLIs) in the next
question.
-->

> ###### What are the SLIs (Service Level Indicators) an operator can use to determine the health of the service?

Reviewer 5: N/A?

<!--
Pick one more of these and delete the rest.
-->

- [ ] Metrics
  - Metric name:
  - [Optional] Aggregation method:
  - Components exposing the metric:
- [ ] Other (treat as last resort)
  - Details:

###### Are there any missing metrics that would be useful to have to improve observability of this feature?

<!--
Describe the metrics themselves and the reasons why they weren't added (e.g., cost,
implementation difficulties, etc.).
-->

### Dependencies

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting beta to a release.
-->

> ###### Does this feature depend on any specific services running in the cluster?

Reviewer 5: No

Yes, an increase is possible for pod scheduling operations. This potential increase is because kube-scheduler will need to extract feature requirements specified in the Pod Spec and match them against the features declared by the node. However, this additional processing overhead is expected to be comparable to that of existing scheduling predicates like taint/toleration or Node Label/Selector matching.

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in non-negligible increase of resource usage (CPU, RAM, disk, IO, ...) in any components?

No

###### Can enabling / using this feature result in resource exhaustion of some node resources (PIDs, sockets, inodes, etc.)?

No

### Troubleshooting

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting beta to a release.

For GA, this section is required: approvers should be able to confirm the
previous answers based on experience in the field.

The Troubleshooting section currently serves the `Playbook` role. We may consider
splitting it into a dedicated `Playbook` document (potentially with some monitoring
details). For now, we leave it here.
-->

> ###### How does this feature react if the API server and/or etcd is unavailable?

Reviewer 5: N/A?

> ###### What are other known failure modes?

Reviewer 5: Pod is unschedulable if no nodes declare required features. But this is WAI
